# Solution for 3

## Data Structure

This is a pretty common type of problem which can be solved using Dijkstra's algorithm. The key data structures used in this solution are:

- Priority Queue (Min-Heap): To efficiently retrieve the smallest element.
- Graph Representation: An adjacency list to represent the graph, where each node points to its neighbors and their respective weights.

## Breakdown

From the problem statement, we can break down the solution as follows:

- We know that there are $N$ cities and $M$ roads.
- Each road has two properties `s` and `v`, the length of the road and the maximum speed limit.
- The goal is to find the shortest time to travel from city 1 to city N, given the constraints of speed limits on each road.

While we can construct Dijkstra's algorithm with 4 properties for each edge (source, destination, length, speed limit), we can simplify it by calculating the time directly as `length / speed_limit` for each edge. With that in mind, the Implementation of the algorithm is pretty much the same as the one in the module, however we have to account for the time value we just calculated, as it is a double value.

## Implementation

#### Graph Representation

As stated above, we will use adjacency list to represent the graph. Each node will have a list of tuples representing its neighbors and the time it takes to travel to them.

```cpp
typedef pair<int, double> pid;

void addEdge(vector<vector<pid>> &graph, int u, int v, double w) {
  graph[u].push_back({v, w});
  graph[v].push_back({u, w});
}

int main() {
  int n, m;
  cin >> n >> m;

  vector<vector<pid>> graph(n);
  for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
    int p, q, s, v;
    cin >> p >> q >> s >> v;
    double t = (double)s / v;
    addEdge(graph, p - 1, q - 1, t);
  }
}
```

#### Dijkstra's Algorithm

Since the time is stored as a double, instead of using `pair<int, int>` like in the module, we will use `pair<double, int>` to represent the priority queue elements.

##### Why `pair<double, int>` and not `pair<int, double>` like adjacency list?

You can use `pair<int, double>`, however, you have to define your own comparison function. This is because the `greater<T>` comparator used in the priority queue will compare the first element of the pair first, and if they are equal, it will compare the second element. If we don't define a custom comparator, it will not work as expected because the priority queue prioritize the vertex with the smaller value first (int), instead of the time (double).

While you can define your own comparator, using `pair<double, int>` is more straightforward since it will compare the time directly as the first element, which is what we want.

```cpp
typedef pair<double, int> pdi;

const int MX = 1e9;

void dijkstra(const vector<vector<pid>> &graph, int source, int end) {
  int n = (int)graph.size();
  vector<double> dist(n, MX);
  vector<int> parent(n, -1);
  dist[source] = 0.0;

  priority_queue<pdi, vector<pdi>, greater<pdi>> pq;
  pq.push({0, source});
  while (!pq.empty()) {
    auto [w, u] = pq.top();
    pq.pop();

    if (w > dist[u]) continue;
    for (const auto &[v, weight] : graph[u]) {
      if (dist[u] + weight < dist[v]) {
        dist[v] = dist[u] + weight;
        parent[v] = u;
        pq.push({dist[v], v});
      }
    }
  }

  if (dist[end] == MX) cout << -1 << "\nKedua kota tidak terhubung\n";
  else {
    cout << dist[end] << "jam\n";

    // Reconstruct the path
    vector<int> path;
    for (int v = end; v != -1; v = parent[v]) path.push_back(v);

    reverse(path.begin(), path.end());
    cout << "Rute: ";
    for (const auto &v : path) cout << v + 1 << ' ';
    cout << "\n";
  }
}
```

---

Full implementation can be found [here](3.cpp)
