# Solution for 2

## Data Structure

- Disjoint Set Union (DSU) if you're implementing Kruskal's algorithm.
- Priority Queue (Min-Heap) if you're implementing Prim's algorithm.

In this case, we will use Kruskal. If you're using Prim's algorithm, the implementation is pretty trivial.

## Breakdown

- This type of problem is a pretty trivial Minimum Spanning Tree (MST) problem, where we're tasked to find the minimum cost to connect all the offices.
- The solution is straight up just to implement either Kruskal's or Prim's algorithm.
- The input is a list of edges, where each edge has a cost and connects two offices.
- The output is the minimum cost to connect all offices.
- The other output is the list of edges that are included in the MST, however this is **OPTIONAL** for you to implement. You will get additional 10 points if you do.

## Implementation

#### Disjoint Set Union (DSU) Implementation

We will implement the DSU using path compression and union by rank. This implementation however, is slightly different than what were taught during the class.

The difference is on the `unite` function, where we reduce the amount of comparison made. This implementation is commonly used in competitive programming, while the difference is not that significant, it helps with branch prediction.

```cpp
struct DSU {
  vector<int> parent, rank;

  DSU(int n) : parent(n), rank(n, 0) {
    for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) parent[i] = i;
  }

  int find(int u) {
    return parent[u] == u ? u : parent[u] = find(parent[u]);
  }

  void unite(int u, int v) {
    u = find(u);
    v = find(v);
    if (u != v) {
      // If the rank of u is less than the rank of v, we swap them.
      if (rank[u] < rank[v]) swap(u, v);
      // This way, we always attach the smaller rank tree under
      // the larger rank tree without needing an additional comparison.
      parent[v] = u;
      // If the ranks are equal, we increment the rank of u as u became
      // the parent of v.
      if (rank[u] == rank[v]) rank[u]++;
    }
  }
};
```

#### Kruskal's Algorithm Implementation

On this implementation, we will implement the Kruskal's algorithm straight into the main function. This way, it will help us to collect the edges that are included in the MST. If you want to implement it in a function however, you can just copy the implementation from the module, but you will need to pass the `mstEdges` vector as an additional parameter to store the edges.

```cpp
  DSU dsu(n);
  vector<pii> mst_edges;
  sort(edges.begin(), edges.end(), [](const vector<int>& a, const vector<int>& b) {
    return a[2] < b[2];
  });

  int totalWeight = 0;
  int edgeCount = 0;

  for (const auto& e : edges) {
    u = e[0];
    v = e[1];
    w = e[2];

    if (dsu.find(u) != dsu.find(v)) {
      dsu.unite(u, v);
      mst_edges.push_back({u, v});
      totalWeight += w;
      edgeCount++;

      if (edgeCount == n - 1) break;
    }
  }
```

Full implementation can be found [here](2.cpp).
